# academic-networking-app
Final Year Project - Academic Networking Web Application

Academic networking applications, which are catered specifically for academia, often
consist of a platform that can allow users to manage their collaborative contacts and
connections, allowing them to benefit both professionally and socially. From a higher
education perspective, such applications can be helpful for enhancing collaboration
between students, providing a platform for them to communicate with different students
across campus. The key benefit of such an application is that students would no longer
be confined within their specific school or course, but will rather, have the opportunity
to access and integrate knowledge from a wide range of academic disciplines.

Despite the large number of academic applications available, there are currently none
that are suitable for a university environment where there would be an opportunity for
cross-curricular collaboration and peer-to-peer learning to take place. Therefore, the
primary aim of this project was to create an academic networking web application that
would allow students to connect with other like-minded students and to provide them
with a platform that would make collaboration with other students possible. To achieve
this, several web technologies were used to implement features, such as a simple user
matching algorithm, a search filter, and forums, to allow students to connect and
collaborate with ease. 

Project Objectives:

• Allow students to create an account with their university email. This will provide
verification that only students attending the university are accessing the application.

• Allow students to create a professional profile that specifies their academic
interests, provide information about any projects they may be working on, and
details related to the course/school they are enrolled in.

• Implement a simple user matching algorithm that uses the interests the students
selected during the registration process, to match students together

• Implement a simple search filter where students can filter their matches so that they
can find specific students they may wish to collaborate with

• Implement a simple chat feature where students can have conversations with other
students

• Create a discussion forum where students can view different topics and can create
threads to ask questions and also answer questions from other students
